Now, it's time to actually look at some data augmentation strategies.
A pretty common strategy for training neural networks
is to introduce some randomness in the input data itself.
For example, you could do rotations,
flipping, rescaling, or even cropping the images in your training set.
This is going to help your network generalize as its seen the same images,
but in different locations with different sizes,
different orientations, et cetera.
We can implement these transformations by passing them
as arguments to our image data generator class.
We'll walk through a few examples here and we'll also let
you look at the documentation to add a few more yourself later on.
First, let's define a plotting function so that
we can see the type of transformation that has been applied.
So here, it's just our basic plot images function.
It's going to create our subplots with
matplotlib and it's going to just go ahead and show that image
and this is going to be able to plot out five images at
once so that we can see different transformation impacts.
First, let's start by flipping the image horizontally.
We can do this by using the horizontal flip equals
true argument and the ImageDataGenerator class.
Notice again that we're normalizing our pixel values between zero and one.
So here we'll flow from the directory with a few example images and looking at our plot,
you can see here's our original image and all these are horizontally flipped.
Again, these other four we can even apply
further transformations so that it's not just for the same image,
but it's an improvement on the original data,
where instead of only learning this image it now
learns that a cat can also be oriented in this way.
Next up, let's look at how to rotate an image.
In this case, we can use rotation range along with an angle.
Here we'll go ahead and set the maximum angle to be 45 degrees.
Now that doesn't mean every single one of them is going to be 45,
that just means somewhere between 0 and 45 degrees
is the amount of rotation that can occur to the image.
So again, we'll use flow from directory along
with our image data generator and here's a few plots.
It's not always super obvious the difference,
but here you can see the rabbit is very straight,
and here the rabbit is more crooked.
The dog is a little tougher to see that rotation with,
but you can tell that there are differences here and
different neurons and different parts of our network are
going to be lit up differently based on that rotation.
Next, we can look at applying zoom.
So we can do this with zoom range.
Again, similarly to our rotation range earlier,
this is going to be how much of that zoom we can apply.
In this case, it's from 0-1 as opposed to the angle from before.
Again, here you can see pretty obvious difference in these images,
that here's the initial cat image and here's a more zoomed in
image and some one's that seemed to be a little like stretched out, et cetera.
Great. So you've seen a little bit of how to do
this and now it's going to be your turn to use some of
these different data augmentation techniques
on some of the data from our cat versus dog dataset.
So instead of before where we saw a cat and just four that were all horizontally flipped,
we can apply multiple transformations at once.
So a horizontal flip may occur,
rotation range and zoom range all of these together and
create a wider variety of data than our original dataset had.
Again, there's a lot of different options here.
So we'll have you at least apply
these transformation to the training set of rotation range,
width shift range, height shift range,
sheer range, zoom range,
horizontal flip, and fill mode.
We've linked here to the documentation so that you can actually check this out yourself.
You'll be able to read through and see
the different impacts as well as how to actually use each of these.
As we noted before with zoom,
as well as the rotation angle,
note that there are differences of those inputs.
So you do need to check here the documentation of how to use each.
Back in the notebook you can go ahead and implement these data augmentation techniques,
and I'll see you back soon in the solution video.